- [cawing]
- Previously on
"Just Add Magic"...
- What is it?
- It's a cookbook.
My grandma's.
I need you to trust
your instincts.
Trust your--
Grandma.
I just know that
whatever is going on
with Grandma
has something to do
with the book.
She's under a spell.
We need to keep cooking.
We have to save
my grandma.
You take flour alone,
it's tasteless,
and you sure wouldn't want to
eat a stick of butter.
[laughs]
But when you
blend them all together
in just the right way,
that's when
the magic happens.
Mm. And...
chocolates, Madam?
[laughs]
Mmm.
Wait. Don't we need these
for the cookies?
Oh, rule number one
of baking:
extra chocolate.
[laughs]
Extra chocolate.
**
Hi, Grandma.
What'd the doctor say?
Well, all of Grandma's tests
came back normal.
Forget the tests.
She's obviously not okay.
We know, sweetie.
It's... a mystery.
But don't worry.
We won't give up.
We just need to
keep looking for
the right doctor
to help her.
Yeah.
Okay?
Extra chocolate.
[laughs]
Do you remember when
we made these cookies?
It was only
four months ago.
I know you're in there,
Grandma.
I promise you...
I'm gonna
figure this out.
**
I can't believe
it's only 10 a.m.
and I already
need a nap.
Did you stay up to watch the
little league championship
from Tokyo, too?
Mm, no.
I was up all night
looking through
the cookbook.
[sighs] It never ends.
That's how I felt about
"The Count of Monte Cristo."
No, I'm serious.
The book literally
never ends.
I just kept
flipping through the pages,
and more just
kept appearing.
Darbie: Whoa.
I mean, whoa.
Did you find out
anything about
Cedronian vanilla?
It doesn't exist.
But I did learn
a lot about cedar closets,
vanilla and
Vietnamese monkeys,
which, FYI, have
the tiniest noses ever.
How many times
have I told you to
stay off wikipedia?
Well, I can't
hang out after school.
Mr. Taneburg
caught three people
texting in class,
and now I have a test on
the American Revolution
tomorrow.
Why are you worried?
You're good in History.
Actually, you're good
in every class.
I know,
but it's not fair.
My phone was on silent
because I actually read
the student handbook.
You always freak out
and you always do fine.
Come over after school
and we'll help you study.
On one condition.
You have to buy me
a granola bar.
I forgot my money.
Oh, that must be
the new exchange student.
She's from Barcelona.
I heard she doesn't speak
a word of English.
Of course.
That's why she's here.
- To learn.
- [giggling]
Hola.
Me llamo Darbie.
Habla Español?
Vale. Me llamo
Carmela de la Paz.
[speaks Spanish]
Me llamo Darbie.
I wish I knew more than
me llamo Darbie.
You know what I wish?
That I could learn history
without spending hours
that I don't have studying.
Ooh, can I have
a second wish?
'Cause I wish
I could teleport.
I wish I could
read minds,
and I'd start
with Grandma.
If only we had
a magical cookbook
to help us.
I don't know
about this, guys.
We said that we would
only use the cookbook
if it was
absolutely necessary.
- Hi, Grandma.
- Hi, Mrs. Quinn.
What's up?
[sighs] This is
absolutely necessary.
"Jumping Jack
Flapjacks."
"Slow Caramel Turtles."
How do we know
which spell to use?
Maybe if we concentrate,
the book will show us.
- [sighs]
- Well, that was a bust.
Maybe it's broken.
"Brain Boosting Bolognese"
Brain boosting?
Yes!
Now I can definitely
pass my test.
Sorry for
doubting you.
I love Bolognese.
I think.
What is it?
It's an Italian
red sauce,
and it's amazing.
Perfect. You know
I read that we only use
10 percent of our brain.
Imagine if we use
the other 90 percent.
I can't.
I'm only using 10.
[laughing]
Garlic, onions,
tomato paste.
We need Livonian sage
and Taurian thyme.
Hm. I've never
heard of those.
Neither has Wikipedia.
But there is a lot
on the thymus,
which is an organ
in your immune system.
- It says here that--
- Focus.
Clearly, these are
magical ingredients.
Which means another trip
to Mama P's.
No way.
I mean, I get it.
She's sweet and kind
and always super nice.
And her cookies are
totally amazing.
But she gives me
the creeps.
Good point.
Nobody is that awesome.
But look at her shop.
She's the only one who has
all the ingredients.
Better point.
We have to go.
No, we don't.
We haven't even checked
the grocery store.
Let me ask you
a question.
What year was
the battle of Bunker Hill?
- I don't know.
- Neither do I,
but it's gonna be
on the test. Let's go.
Oh.
[bell jingles]
Hey, guys.
Oh, I'm glad you're here.
Okay, I just came up with
the greatest business idea
of all time.
- You know how there--
- That's great.
Maybe later.
We need--
[whispering]
We need Livonian sage,
and Taurian thyme.
Why are you whispering?
[whispering]
I'm not whispering.
- Livonian what?
- Shh!
I've never
heard of those.
Are you sure
you got it right?
Yes.
Look here.
L-I-V--
Hey, Mama P,
you ever heard of
Livonian sage?
Well, I've never seen
a cookbook like that before.
It's my grandmother's.
Really?
I bet it has some
great recipes.
It looks like
a very old book.
Well, her grandmother is
a very old lady.
So, you're looking for
Livonian sage, huh?
What are you girls
making this time?
Nothing!
You know.
Nothing.
They're also looking for
Taurus something--
Taurian thyme?
I have some in the back.
Wait here.
You guys okay?
[sighs]
Yeah, yeah,
we're fine.
So, you were
telling us about
your new business.
Oh, right.
Okay, so you know
about food trucks.
Right?
I'm gonna open up
a food bike.
- Huh?
- You know, like
a food truck.
But a bike.
You know,
just for a few years
until I'm old enough
to get my license.
That's a great idea, Jake.
Mama P: Here you go.
That'll be $10,
please.
Sorry, guys.
I forgot my money.
You always forget
your money.
Uh, can I please
get a receipt.
I like to
keep track of my spending.
Remember,
time is precious.
Use it wisely.
We will.
Thanks.
Do you think she was
talking about time or...
thyme?
Does it matter?
Either way,
it's creepy.
[bell jingles]
**
The moment of truth.
Add one-fourth teaspoon
of Livonian sage.
I don't get how this will
boost our brains.
Pasta usually just
makes me sleepy.
Sage is another word
for smart person.
Add another pinch.
We need to be sage-er.
And now for
Taurian thyme.
But it doesn't say
how much.
Maybe thyme
equals actual time.
But who's gonna
pay the price?
I don't think anyone.
Each spice has
its own rule.
Look, there's a rhyme.
[reading]
"Too much will leave you
in a stew."
Let's play it safe.
Who knows how powerful
this stuff is.
Well,
let's boost our brains.
[bubbling]
Well, I'm not feeling
any boost yet.
Maybe it takes time
to work.
Well, I hope it
kicks in soon,
'cause this telenovela
makes no sense.
What are you doing?
While we wait,
we'll write down things
we know about magic.
So we know nothing.
Clearly,
this isn't working.
Unless you meant to
draw a chicken,
then it's really good.
It's not a chicken.
It's a hawk.
I better get going.
Looks like I have
a long night of studying
ahead of me.
Bye.
Hasta mañana, Kell.
That's all I got.
[door closes]
[sighs]
[school bell rings]
I can't believe
how much we missed.
The book is filled
with clues.
I counted up how many times
Cedronian vanilla was used
in the book,
and so far I've come to
36 mentions,
which, if you take
the square root of that,
is six.
Wow, what does that mean?
I don't know yet,
but it is definitely
something.
Hey, guys.
So, who wants to
test me on history?
I'm guessing
the spell worked
for you, too.
I'm an expert on
the American Revolution.
And I'm not talking
the white-washed drivel
in our textbooks.
Do you know what
it was all about?
Freedom?
Ha! That's what they
want you to believe.
But it was actually
about power.
One man was responsible
for it all.
The Earl of Butte.
He formed a secret cabinet
in England,
and was the real
puppet master.
Wow. You got this all
last night?
How long does it take?
Connect the dots.
Hola, Carmela.
[speaking Spanish]
Wow. That's a lot more
than me llamo Darbie.
I'm fluent.
You sounded
so sophisticated.
What did you say?
I told her it was
pork chop day.
We're having lunch together.
This is the
best spell ever.
Hi, there.
I'm Ida Perez.
I own Mama P's
down the block.
Right.
The competition.
Oh, nonsense.
There's plenty of coffee
to go around.
I just wanted to
welcome you to
the neighborhood.
I hope you will be here
for a long, long time.
Thanks. Me, too.
For some reason
there's been a lot of
turnover in this spot.
Oh, well, don't worry
about that.
[laughs]
I have a good feeling
about you.
Ida.
I saw the book.
Becky's granddaughter
has it.
Leave that girl alone.
Don't tell me what to do.
I'm going to
get that book back.
These are
terrific cookies.
I'm so glad
you like them.
Enjoy your tea.
This place will be closed
before you know it.
**
[speaking Spanish]
Thanks for coming down here
on such short notice.
I thought this was something
you should really see.
What did Buddy do now?
- This.
- Is that the White House?
Made of popsicle sticks.
Have you ever
thought about putting Buddy
in the gifted class?
Teacher: The answer
to number three.
Kelly?
Kelly.
- Kelly!
- Huh?
I mean, yes?
[laughter]
The answer,
if 3x and 4y
equal--
Great idea.
I should apply algebra.
Finally a use for it.
[laughter]
Kelly,
this isn't like you.
Pay attention, please.
Of course.
Sorry, just tired.
Adam, number three.
Yes, Hannah.
Can I have
more paper, please?
If you need more space
for your answer,
just use the back.
I already have.
Better make it two.
Or four.
"The Great Gatsby."
"El Gran Gatsby."
Is a cautionary tale--
[speaking Spanish]
About the decadent downside
of the American dream.
[speaking Spanish]
Darbie.
I think it's very sweet
that you're translating.
But, number one,
Carmela's here to
learn English.
And, number two,
it's disrupting the class.
Oh, okay.
I'm sorry.
[speaking Spanish]
Kelly. This is not
a private school.
You can't just
write on the walls.
Clean up this mess.
You've got detention.
This is a deeply
layered question
that you expect me to answer
in the allotted time
is the reason
this country's
educational system
is failing our youth.
I've heard enough.
Detention.
[speaking Spanish]
- [giggling]
- Darbie.
For the last time,
you have to stop
speaking Spanish
in my English class.
But it's so cool.
I've never known
a secret language
that no one
understands.
Then speak it after class.
[speaking Spanish]
I'm not lonely.
I only have three cats.
And, by the way,
I speak Spanish.
You have detención.
So, this is
detention, huh?
Well, I guess there's a
first time for everything.
I've never noticed
how inferior
our library is.
This is like mi casa
away from casa.
What are those?
Detention snacks.
The secret to survival
is fuel and hydration.
Chewy fruit?
Doesn't snacking
normally get you
sent to detention?
It's a vicious cycle.
I don't get it.
My brain is going
a million miles an hour,
but I still haven't had
a breakthrough.
What are you doing?
[groans] I'm getting
out of here.
Notice the air vent?
As we all know,
buildings constructed
after 1960
must have air ducts
connecting to exterior
ventilation.
We take the duct
leading to the gym,
then we drop down in
the girls locker room.
Are you nuts?
Trust me,
it's simple.
Using secret tunnels
as a mode of escape
goes back to
the days of--
Uh--
What was I saying?
Oh, no. The spell
just wore off.
Mine did, too.
Looks like a crazy person
wrote this.
Carmela texted me.
[speaking Spanish]
Yeah, I have no idea
what that means.
"Xoxo."
What a waste of a spell.
All boosting our brains did
was get us in trouble.
I let Grandma down.
Don't say that.
Look, we're gonna
figure this out. Okay?
Thanks.
Come on. Let's put
these boxes back.
Great. Now we have
more stuff to clean up.
Cool.
Old year books.
Hey, look.
1964.
My grandma was here then.
Is that your grandma?
I don't believe it.
It's from 7th grade.
Look, there's a caption
under the photo.
"The Three Musketeers."
Rebecca Patterson,
Gina Silvers...
and Ida Perez.
That must be Mama P.
They were friends?
I had no idea.
Grandma never
mentioned her.
She barely even said
hello to Mama P
when we passed her
in town.
Um, guys.
Look what's
sticking out of
Mama P's bag.
The cookbook.
But she acted like she's
never even seen it before.
[camera shutter clicking]
Why would Mama P lie?
I'm confused.
How did you come up with
this math equation?
And what does
the W stand for?
Whipped cream?
This whole thing
makes no sense.
That spell was
really strong.
Tell me about it.
I just got an invitation
to speak at Oxford.
They liked
my dissertation
on the myths of the
American Revolution.
You wrote that?
Apparently.
It turns out
the magic worked,
just not in the way
we thought it would.
It led us to
the library.
I also found
a clue.
When I re-read my notes,
I found one thing
that made sense.
"Oigan twigen meiotic"?
That made sense?
It means
"blend two pints of milk."
In what language?
It's not Spanish.
- Is it?
- It's old English.
It's a recipe for posset,
which is a hot drink
using spices,
and curdled goats milk.
Oh, that sounds
disgusting.
Well, it was very popular.
In the Middle Ages.
Wait a minute.
Are you saying what I
think you're saying?
Yes.
This cookbook is at least
500 years old.
So your grandma
didn't create the book.
[sighs] No.
It's way bigger than her.
We're not gonna
figure this out tonight.
Like Grandma always says,
there are no shortcuts.
Speaking of, I have
a chemistry test tomorrow.
I was so focused
on history
that I ignored
my other subjects
I'm good at chemistry.
We can help you study.
Yeah, I have
the perfect recipe
to insure you ace it.
No!
Kelly,
no more spells.
Banana bread.
Relax.
My mom bought this
at the market.
[giggling]
I told you
Buddy had a gift.
We just needed to be
patient to find it.
Wait 'til that
Doreen Nagle
hears about this.
Bet it wipes that smug look
right off her face.
Not that that matters.
[laughs]
[growling] I am
the underwear monster.
And I am crushing
the Eiffel Tower!
[roaring]
Oh!
Uh--
[roaring]
Hmm.
Maybe we should put a pin
in this gifted thing.
Good idea.
[dog barking]
[sighs]
[bell jingles]
I'm just getting
a coffee, Mom.
Okay. Come on in.
I'll be really quick.
Hi, Scott.
How are you, Becky?
We're on our way
to the doctor for
more tests.
How's she doing?
No change,
unfortunately.
Well, don't worry.
I'm sending
good thoughts.
That's very sweet,
Mama P.
Go get your coffee,
I'll watch her.
Oh, thanks.
I'll be right back.
I see you didn't
get rid of the book.
One way or another,
I'm going to get it back.
**